# Examples

Matic-transfer and NFT Balance is an exemplary project that showcases the usage of Chain Indexer Framework to index all MATIC transfers occurring on the Ethereum blockchain and NFT balance of particular contract on Blueberry chain.

## Overview
The folder consists of 2 examples and each project consists of three distinct packages, each serving a specific function:

1. **Producers**: This package acts as the initial entry point for the indexer service. It collects all blockchain data from a particular chain and streams it into Kafka without any discrimination.

2. **Transformers**: The Transformers package consumes the blockchain data from the Kafka stream generated by the producers. It then filters out all MATIC transfers and reproduces these events to a dedicated topic within the Kafka stream.

3. **Consumers**: Consumers are responsible for subscribing to the event-specific Kafka stream and persisting the data into a database. Additionally, they expose endpoints that allow clients to retrieve the data according to their specific requirements.

Both the examples serves as a useful reference for understanding how Chain Indexer Framework can be effectively utilized to manage and process blockchain data efficiently.


## How to Build and Run

This project can be built and run on Windows, MacOS, and Linux. To get started, follow these steps:

**Step 1: Install Kafka**

You have two options for running Kafka, either inside a Docker container or locally without Docker.

Option 1: **Inside Docker** 
  - Install Docker and verify the installation:
    - ```bash
      docker --version
      ```
  
  - Run Docker Compose from the "dev-env" directory. Make sure that the Docker daemon is running:
    - ```bash
      cd dev-env
      docker compose up -d
      ```

Option 2: **Run Locally without Docker**
  - Download kafka from [here](https://www.apache.org/dyn/closer.cgi?path=/kafka/3.6.0/kafka_2.13-3.6.0.tgz)

  - Move to the Kafka folder you downloaded:
    - ```bash
      cd kafka_2.13-3.6.0
      ```
  
  - Run Zookeeper:
    - ```bash
      bin/zookeeper-server-start.sh config/zookeeper.properties
      ```
  
  - Run Kafka:
    - ```bash
      bin/kafka-server-start.sh config/server.properties
      ```

**Step 2: Install and Run MongoDB**

Ensure that MongoDB is installed and its service is running. Follow these steps to install MongoDB:

  - ```bash
    curl -fsSL https://www.mongodb.org/static/pgp/server-4.4.asc | sudo apt-key add -
    apt-key list
    echo "deb [ arch=amd64,arm64 ] https://repo.mongodb.org/apt/ubuntu focal/mongodb-org/4.4 multiverse" | sudo tee /etc/apt/sources.list.d/mongodb-org-4.4.list
    sudo apt update
    sudo apt install mongodb-org
    sudo systemctl start mongod.service
    sudo systemctl status mongod
    ```

**Step 3: Build and Run Services**
 
- Run [MATIC_TRANSFER](./matic_transfer/README.md)

- Run [NFT_BALANCER](./nft_balancer/README.md)
  